More AWS documentation (#1913)
digitallyinduced/ihp: Guide/deployment.markdown

#### (Optional) Creating an RDS Instance

For production systems, it is advised to use a fully managed PostgreSQL instance, it can be multi-region, fault tolerant, but most of all,
daily backups happen automatically with configurable retention.

To switch from the local PostgreSQL instance to a managed one (you can do it after or before the initial deployment), you can execute the following steps:
 - Visit [RDS creation page](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home?region=eu-west-1#launch-dbinstance:) in your desired region.
 - Select PostgreSQL as the Engine Type.
 - Select a compatible Engine Version, there are good chances that the very last version will fit.
 - At Templates, Choose `Free Tier` for any non-live environments, `Production` for the live environment.
 - (Optional) Choose `Auto generate password` for having a secure master password.
 - Choose `Connect to an EC2 compute resource` and select your already existing EC2 instance.
 - Then you can `Create database`. This process is slow, check back in 10 minutes or so afterward. Note down the auto-generated password.

>  - Edit your `flake.nix`, under `flake.nixosConfigurations."ihp-app".services.ihp.additionalEnvVars`, you can specify the database URL like: `DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://postgres:YOUR-PASSWORD@YOUR-HOSTNAME.amatonaws.com/postgres";`. You can find the proper hostname after the initialization is complete, on the RDS instance detail page.

Reviewer: You can use `services.ihp.databaseUrl` directly instead of using `additionalEnvVars`. Didn't that work in your setup for some reason?

Author: It works well, we found the more complicated way... adapting the doc accordingly.

    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "YOUR-BUCKET-ARN/*"
        }
    ]
}
```
 - Test the access by locating a file in a bucket under Objects and "Copy S3 URI" for it.

#### (Optional) Connecting CloudWatch

For a production system, logging is essential, so you are informed about anomalies before customer complaints, or you are able to provide an evidence for an incident and so on.

Mind the region of your EC2 instance for these steps.

- [Create a CloudWatch log group](https://eu-west-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/home?region=eu-west-1#logsV2:log-groups/create-log-group), note down the ARN.
- Create a log stream inside the previously created log group, for instance `in`.
- Create an IAM user with an access key and secret with the following policy:
```json
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Action": [
				"logs:CreateLogStream",
				"logs:PutLogEvents",
				"logs:DescribeLogStreams"
			],
			"Resource": [
				"[YOUR-GROUP-ARN]",
				"[YOUR-GROUP-ARN]:*"
			]
		}
	]
}
```

> - Configure the `services.vector` part in your `flake.nix` to activate logging.

Reviewer: Maybe we can redundantly copy the services.vector definiton here as well. This way people can still find it even when they have deleted it from their flake.nix in the past (also good for SEO)

Author: Yep, added, with some hints of remapping the entries.

> - Follow the [sample](https://github.com/digitallyinduced/ihp-boilerplate/pull/32/files) to configure your `flake.nix` to activate logging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Configure the `services.vector` part in your `flake.nix` to activate logging.
```

 - Specify a generous root disk volume. By nature NixOS can consume lots of disk space as you trial-and-error your application deployment. As a minimum, we advise 60 GiB.
 - Under `Network settings`, allow SSH traffic from your IP address only, allow HTTPS and HTTP traffic from the internet. Due to the certificate validation for Let's Encrypt, even if your application does not need to have it, allow HTTP too.
 - Make sure to attach SSH keys to the instance at creation time, that is available locally, so you can SSH to the EC2 instance without password later.
   - Either before creating the EC2 instance, you import your existing keypair to [EC2 Key Pairs](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=eu-west-1#ImportKeyPair:), then you should select it at the EC2 creation page.
   - Or let AWS create one on-the-fly: ![image](https://github.com/digitallyinduced/ihp/assets/114076/317b022a-ad6e-43ae-931d-8710db0b711c) . Afterwards, you will be able to download the private key file, later on it is referred as `ihp-app.pem` in this documentation.

> #### (optional) Creating an RDS Instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### (Optional) Creating an RDS Instance
```

For production systems, it is advised to use a fully managed PostgreSQL instance, it can be multi-region, fault tolerant, but most of all,
daily backups happen automatically with configurable retention.

To switch from the local PostgreSQL instance to a managed one (you can do it after or before the initial deployment), you can execute the following steps:
 - Visit [RDS creation page](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/rds/home?region=eu-west-1#launch-dbinstance:) in your desired region.
 - Select PostgreSQL as the Engine Type.
 - Select a compatible Engine Version, there are good chances that the very last version will fit.
 - At Templates, Choose `Free Tier` for any non-live environments, `Production` for the live environment.
 - (Optional) Choose `Auto generate password` for having a secure master password.
 - Choose `Connect to an EC2 compute resource` and select your already existing EC2 instance.
 - Then you can `Create database`. This process is slow, check back in 10 minutes or so afterward. Note down the auto-generated password.

>  - Edit your `flake.nix`, under `flake.nixosConfigurations."ihp-app".services.ihp.additionalEnvVars`, you can specify the database URL like: `DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://postgres:autogeneratedpw@app.aaa000.eu-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com/postgres";`. You can find the proper hostname after the initialization is complete, on the RDS instance detail page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Edit your `flake.nix`, under `flake.nixosConfigurations."ihp-app".services.ihp.additionalEnvVars`, you can specify the database URL like: `DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://postgres:YOUR-PASSWORD@app.YOUR-IP.eu-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com/postgres";`. You can find the proper hostname after the initialization is complete, on the RDS instance detail page.
```

>  - Edit your `flake.nix`, under `flake.nixosConfigurations."ihp-app".services.ihp.additionalEnvVars`, you can specify the database URL like: `DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://postgres:autogeneratedpw@app.aaa000.eu-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com/postgres";`. You can find the proper hostname after the initialization is complete, on the RDS instance detail page.

Author: ```suggestion
 - Edit your `flake.nix`, under `flake.nixosConfigurations."ihp-app".services.ihp.additionalEnvVars`, you can specify the database URL like: `DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://postgres:YOUR-PASSWORD@YOUR-HOSTNAME.amatonaws.com/postgres";`. You can find the proper hostname after the initialization is complete, on the RDS instance detail page.
```

>  - `pg_dump` your existing database on the EC2 instance directly, and then, you can load it to the newly created instance via `pgsql`, if you migrate an existing database. Otherwise `deploy-to-nixos` will create the initial schema for you.

Reviewer 2: > Otherwise `deploy-to-nixos` will create the initial schema for you.

We still don't have it, but I guess we soon will? @mpscholten

Reviewer 2: @AronNovak Let's change this to reflect what we currently have. Once `deploy-to-nixos` will create the DB, we'll update here

Author: Done

#### (Optional) Creating an S3 bucket

> If your application needs to store files, on AWS, those should go to an S3 bucket.

Author: ```suggestion
If your application needs to store files, on AWS, those should use an S3 bucket for that.
```

Infrastructure-side preparation:

>  - Visit the [S3 creation page](https://s3.console.aws.amazon.com/s3/bucket/create?region=eu-west-1) and create a bucket in the same region.. If objects should or should not be public, it's up to the business requirements of the application. The S3 [ARN](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference-arns.html) from the S3 details page should be noted down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Visit the [S3 creation page](https://s3.console.aws.amazon.com/s3/bucket/create?region=eu-west-1) and create a bucket in the same region..If objects should or should not be public, it's up to the application's business requirements. The S3 [ARN](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference-arns.html) from the S3 details page should be noted down.
```

 - Create an new IAM user for the S3 access. Create an [AWS access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html) for that IAM user.

>  - For that user, attach a [policy](https://gist.github.com/AronNovak/d2e295d1644e807e27e5e759ecffbc86) that allows access to the bucket. 

Reviewer 2: Let's have the policy here instead of in a gist
